WI #557: Normative Requirements Refinement - Part 1 (#787)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/columns/chargedescription.md

The ChargeDescription column adheres to the following requirements:

* ChargeDescription MUST be present in a [*FOCUS dataset*](#glossary:FOCUS-dataset).
* ChargeDescription MUST be of type String.
* ChargeDescription MUST conform to [StringHandling](#stringhandling) requirements.
* ChargeDescription SHOULD NOT be null.

> * ChargeDescription length SHOULD be specified by providers in their publicly available documentation.

Author: Considering the following:

- **Original version** of the *ChargeDescription* requirement:  
  - *"ChargeDescription length **SHOULD** be specified by providers in their publicly available documentation."*  
  - *Note:* This column and requirement were introduced before FOCUS Metadata was incorporated into the spec.  

- **Relevant FOCUS Metadata references:**  
  - *Each FOCUS dataset must have metadata about the schema associated with it.*  
  - *The FOCUS metadata schema column definition provides a list of the columns present in the FOCUS dataset along with metadata about the columns.*  
  - *StringMaxLength **SHOULD** be provided in the FOCUS Metadata schema for String columns.* 
  - - **FOCUS Metadata** and **FOCUS Metadata Schema** are not yet defined terms in the glossary.
 
- **Who should specify this** - a provider or data generator?  
  - *Since the discussion on Provider, Data Generator, etc. is still ongoing in TF-3, I’m avoiding specifying it explicitly at this point.*

Suggesting the following update:

```suggestion
* ChargeDescription maximum length SHOULD be provided in the corresponding FOCUS Metadata Schema.
```

---

Additionally, adding this to the list of [Discussion topics / TODOs](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1rD9wKQ8A18GdklXYSXue8tm7tu23eAAJ-HaAbCWJ_9w/edit?gid=1947065303#gid=1947065303):

* FOCUS Columns and references to FOCUS Metadata Schema
* FOCUS Metadata and FOCUS Metadata Schema as glossary terms

> * ChargeDescription length SHOULD be specified by providers in their publicly available documentation.

Reviewer: In the scope of a consistency review, it was SHOULD before, and thus it shall remain SHOULD.  I personally absolutely believe that lengths are critical info for a practitioner, and it's a change worth making -- but if we want to make a non-editorial change, then we need to make it a separate Work Item for further discussion.

> * ChargeDescription length SHOULD be specified by providers in their publicly available documentation.

Author: Added to the list of [Discussion Topics.](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1rD9wKQ8A18GdklXYSXue8tm7tu23eAAJ-HaAbCWJ_9w/edit?gid=1947065303#gid=1947065303)

> * ChargeDescription length SHOULD be specified by providers in their publicly available documentation.

Author: closing this conversation. 
proceeded with the alternative suggestion outlined in [here](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/787#discussion_r1993376570)
